From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman posted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number one Oh seven.
Recorded live Monday, March 31st, 2008. Support
for Hanselman it's as provided
by Tellerik RFID controls. The
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications. online@wwwdottelprik.com. Support is
also provided by dotnet developers
journal. The world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott decodes, the language
of digital photography with photographer,
Aaron Hockley. This is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes, and I'm
sitting here at eight bar
camp meetup in Portland, Oregon
with my buddy Aaron Hockley,
who is making that transition
from amateur photographer to professional
photographer. Thanks for sitting down
with me. Yeah, thanks for
the opportunity. So, you know,
I had lunch a couple
of weeks ago because I
bought a Nikon D 40,
which was my first digital
SLR. This is my first,
you know, camera that when
I pushed the button, it
actually takes the picture without
a pause. And this was
huge for me. And my
ability at photography goes about
is I can take a
picture and I can upload
it to flicker. You gotta
start somewhere. And that's, you
know, with the DSLR, that's
one of the nice things
is that you have the
ability to go from a,
you know, a fully automatic
mode where it does take
the picture right away, but
then you have the ability
to tweak a lot of
the settings. As you learn
more about, you know, the
different technical things that go
together to make a, a
good picture. So what is
the difference between a DSLR
and just like, you know,
my little Canon point and
shoot that I had a
point and shoot camera, it
gets it to nickname, you
know, as a point shoot,
because essentially you have limited
options to control, you know,
the technical aspects of it
that has a fixed lens.
There's a lens in the
camera. You can't change the
lenses. Whereas a DSLR, you
have the ability to attach
a different lens, which is
going to have any number
of different technical specs. As
far as the, you know,
the focal length, you know,
whether it's a wide angle
lens or a zoom lands,
as well as the quality
of the glass, you can
get really cheap lenses. You
can get lenses that cost
you no more than your,
your car, as well as
the ability to get a
lens that has a different,
a different range for the
F stop for the aperture,
which controls some of the
aspects in the, in the
picture. Okay. So we're going
to talk about f-stop and
aperture in a second, but
if I understand correctly, D
is the fundamental thing that's
interesting about DSLR. The first
thing that's going to really
strikes people is that when
you look through the viewfinder,
you, in fact, looking through
The lens Yeah. With a
DSLR, you're looking at an
actual, you're looking through the
viewfinder, which goes down to
a mirror, which reflects what's
being seen out of the
lens. And so, as opposed
to what they point and
shoot, where they will sometimes
have an optical viewfinder, but
more than often, you're looking
at, you know, what the
computer is interpreting as the
image that's hitting the sensor.
So with the DSLR, it's
more of a, you know,
more of a pure photography
experience. I would say, where
you're seeing exactly what the
glass is saying, as opposed
to what the camera is
interpreting. I've had a number
of times when I've moved
the camera really close to
a point and shoot, and
try to take a picture
of like a bee or
something. Look through the viewfinder,
taking the picture and found
out that I was, you
know, an inch off from
what I thought I was.
Cause I wasn't really seeing
Reality. Right? Yeah. With the
DSLR generally, exactly what you
see is what you're going
to get there. Usually with
most of the lower end
and mid grade DSLRs, usually
what you're seeing through the
viewfinder is 85 to 90%
of what you're going to
see in the actual picture.
Usually there's just a little
margin around that doesn't show
up in the viewfinder, but
will show up on your
picture. Some of the higher
end DSLRs, at least with
the cannons, they actually have
a full, you know, you'll
get 100% coverage of the
field of view. I bought
a Nikon D 40, would
that be considered a very
low level entry level DSLR?
Yes. When it comes to
DSLRs, there's really Canon and
Nikon are the big players
in the market. The there's
other companies, Sony, Olympus, Pentax
that have DSLRs. But really
when you're talking about the
DSLR market, Canon and Nikon
are the big players and
they each make, you know,
several different DSLRs, you know,
ranging from their entry level
ones. Like your  Canon's
entry level. One is their,
their rebel XT, her STI,
you know, and those, you
know, price wise, you're looking
at around, you know, $500
at that point, you know,
all the way up to
their top of the line,
professional grade cameras, you know,
which, you know, at that
point you're talking maybe, you
know, 10 or $12,000 just
for the camera body. Wow.
10 or 20 quick, 12,
10, or 12 grand for
the body. Right? No lens
that's yeah. That's just the
bottom. I felt the $400
I spent on my camera
was an excessive amount of
money. And I actually went
and bought the  having
seven megapixels while the
X has 10. And I
don't miss those extra three
megapixels for the, for the
400 extra dollars. It would
have cost me, I'm feeling
pretty good about my camera.
And interestingly enough, the quality
of photograph that I get
out of a, this my
Nikon D 40 DSLR with
seven megapixels is visibly and
significantly better than the same.
And I'm saying same in
air quotes, same seven megapixels.
I got out of my
point of view. Yes. And
that's, that's one of the
things that the camera marketing
folks will love to tell
you that more megapixels is
better and to a certain
extent it is, but there's
reality as well. I mean,
the reality is you can
make a perfectly good eight
by 10 print from, you
know, a good three or
four megapixel photo. And if
you're talking about stuff to
put up on the web,
I mean really a three
megapixel cameras, more than you
need for a photo, that's
going to be viewed on,
you know, even a 20
or 22 inch computer monitor.
The DSLRs are going to
take a, for lack of
a better term, a better
quality picture at a bar,
you know, in the same
megapixel range because they have
better sensors, they have bigger
sensors. So with a point
and shoot, you know, there's
charts available online where you
can compare these with a
point and shoot, it's going
to be a smaller sensor.
It's not going to be
as high quality as with
a DSLR. So in an
entry level, DSLR we'll have
a higher quality image sensor
than, you know, a mid
grade or probably even some
of the top of the
line point and shoot. So,
And these are the, they
call the CCD or CMOs
sensor Yes. And Canon and
Nikon. They kind of do
their own things with them,
you know, depending on how
they're doing it. You know,
some of them use a
sensor that's an equivalent to,
so that what you see
through a focal length lens
is the same as what
you'd see on a 35
millimeter with that same focal
length lens. Some of them
have what's called a crop
factor. So that from a
crop factor, as in like
cropping an image to make
it smaller, and most of
the cannons and the Nikons
until you get into their
real high end models all
have anywhere from a 1.4
to a 1.6 crop factor.
So what that means is
if you put a, a
50 millimeter lens, which, you
know, on a 35 millimeter
camera, we'll give you, you
know, a certain focal length,
if you put that same
lens onto, you know, my
Canon 40 D for example,
as a 1.6 crap factor.
So I put a 50
millimeter lens onto my camera,
and it gives me the
equivalent of what you would
see at like, was, I
guess it'd be about 85
millimeters, roughly on a 35
millimeter camera. And that's just
based on how much of
what the lens takes in
ends up being projected onto
that image sensor. I'm looking
at the top of your
camera here. And it says
18 to 15 Five millimeters.
And that seems like different
numbers than what I got
with the stock lens. And
that that's indicating that your,
your lens can do what
that mine cannot. The 18
to 55 is a basically
that's giving the range. This
is a zoom lens, so
I can zoom it in
or out to get wider
or a more of a
zoom on my picture. 18
to 55 is a relatively,
you know, 18 is a
relatively wide angle lens. So
at that range, I'm getting
up, you know, more of
a scene into the picture
at 55 millimeters, that's more
of a normal focal range
that you might use for
a portrait, or just some
general indoor. You can get
lenses that are wider. Some
of the widest lenses that
you can get, you know,
are going to be like
in the 10 millimeter range
that are going to actually
be able to see more
than you would see just
standing and looking forward, A
larger, a larger with the
field than the human eye
would have Exactly getting into
fisheye lenses and things like
that. You can get into
the fish eyes. And then,
you know, on the other,
the opposite spectrum is you
can get really, really, really
long lenses. You know, there's
a lens manufacturer called Sigma
that just came out with
a zoom lens that ranges
from 200 to 500 millimeters,
which is, you know, a
really long lens, especially when
you start talking about multiplying
that times 1.6. Wow. And
that's when it's, when you
bring in the, that crop
factor, that crop factor. So
by zooming in you're, you're
cropping out stuff that you
would have ordinarily seen. Exactly.
So if I put that
500 millimeter lens onto my
1.6 crap factor camera, I'm
really looking at about 800
millimeters there, which is a
long ways away. Okay. So
we were talking about f-stop
and aperture, and I understand
the, the, the lens quality
is important. Glass quality is
important. Sensor quality is important,
but one of the things
that I've been struggling with
is I want those, those
kinds of shots where I'm
taking a picture of my
kid, and he's, he's really
clear, but the background is
blurry so that what we
call focal length, where how
much of the spaces and
focus That's actually called depth
of field is the most
common term depth of field
I got that wrong. And
so how aperture plays into
that aperture kind of affects
two things, an aperture being
the size of the hole
that lets the light in
to the, to the camera
aperture and shutter speed are
very closely related. So in
order to get a photo
that, you know, looks good
as properly exposed, you know,
and looks like real life,
you have to have the
right amount of light that
gets into the camera. And
there's two things that control
how much light gets into
the camera. One is the
shutter speed, which is how
long the shutter is open.
The longer the shredder is
open, the more light gets
in. And then the other
thing is the aperture, which
aperture, there's a series of
blades inside a lens. I
think when we were talking
earlier, you used the term
sphincter, which is a good
way to think of it
and that they will, yeah.
They will expand or contract
to either let in more
light or less light. The
aperture value is measured in,
what's called an F stop,
which is actually mathematically. I
believe it's a logarithmic equation.
So you'll see an F
stop number that might be,
you know, this is an
F 2.8, or this is
F four. This is F
11. What that number means
is it's, it's basically inverse
to the size Low F
stop. So like an F
stop of 2.8 would indicate
that the aperture is quite
large. A lot of light
is coming in so low
F a high F stop
of like F 11 would
indicate a fairly small aperture
in a, a fairly small
hole for the light to
go through. Right. And so
how that will then affect
your photos of that. If
you're taking a photo in
a, you know, a relatively
dark area, you know, like
this conference room we're sitting
in is relatively dark it's
indoors. We would want to
use a lens that has
a, the ability to go
to a wide aperture, which
is a big hole, which
is going to be a
low f-stop number. So you
might be wanting to use
a lens that's, you know,
F 2.8 or F two,
or even F 1.8 or
one point. Okay. So, so,
so then changing the F
stop on my camera, on
my new deal at DSLR.
This is assuming I'm choosing
not to say auto. I
want to have manual configuration
abilities here. If I make
a really low F stop,
meaning a very large aperture,
that sounds like a lot
of lights going to come
in. If I kept the
shutter open for too long,
I'm probably gonna get a
big white picture of nothing
but light, Right? Yeah. If
you, if you end up
overexposing the photo, you'll end
up with just a big
white screen. And so that
indicates that you either need
to use a faster shutter
speed to let in less
light via the shutter, or
adjust your aperture to a
smaller aperture value to less
it, you know, let less
light in through the hole.
Okay. Okay. So let me
ask you this. And I'm,
I'm thinking about this in
terms of high school math,
is it possible that I
could take, you know, one
shutter speed and one aperture
size and then find another
aperture size and shutter speed
and get the exact same
picture. Even though one had
a big aperture when have
a small, but I adjusted
them such. They cancel each
other out and I was
taking essentially the same picture.
Yes, that's that's exactly what
happens. A one f-stop is
defined as a doubling of
the amount of light that
will come in. So one
f-stop like moving from F
two to F 2.8 is
considered one complete F stop.
So at F 2.8, it
will let in half as
much light as it does
at F two. Okay. So
if your shutter speed is
twice as long, so from
200 to say from one,
200th of a second to
one, 400th of a second,
you know, by, with that
doubling with that, you know,
doubling in the shutter speed,
in theory, you should get
a photo that's exposed and
would look exactly the same.
Interesting. Now, would it look
exactly the same or would
I have changed the depth
of field? That's that's the
variable that's. The other thing
that aperture affects is that
the, the wider, the aperture
that you go to. So
the smaller, the F stop
number, you're going to have
a eight shallower or a
narrower depth of field and
depth of field. Basically, you're
measuring, you know, if I'm
sitting across from you at
the table and I take
a photo and I focus
on the front of your
nose, for example, at a
wide aperture, low F stop,
I'm going to have a
shallower depth of field than
I it'll, you know, at
a narrower aperture and a
larger f-stop. So if I
take the photo at, for
example, F 1.8, and I
focus on the tip of
your nose, what I am
going to find is that
by the time I'm looking
at your ears, they're going
to be blurry in the
photo because it's a really
shallow depth of field. On
the other hand, if I
took the photo at say
F 5.6, probably your ears
are still going to be
in good focus. So that's
the other consideration when you're
looking at, you know, which
aperture do I want to
choose as if you want
to produce an effect, like
you mentioned, you wanted to
get a picture of, you
know, your kids where, you
know, they're in focus in
the black background is blurry.
You're going to want to
do that so that, you
know, you're gonna want to
use a relatively low F
stuff for that. Okay. I'm
going to hold that thought,
because I'm going to ask
you a question about that
in just a moment, but
briefly we need to thank
our sponsors and pay the
bills. We'll be right back.
Hi, it's Scott Hanselman here.
Hope you're enjoying the show
so far. I'm coming at
you from another place in
time. Sorry to interrupt the
show, but I want to
let you know that putting
together a podcast like this
every week, isn't free folks
that pay the bandwidth bill
is Tellerik. They make the
show possible. And they also
make some pretty cool products
like Telerik site affinity. It's
a development platform for constructing
websites, community portals, and Internet's
built all on asp.net. .
So you're using the various
well-known goodies, like master pages
and membership services, data model
provider, things that you already
know. It's pretty flexible. You've
got a very robust core
that you can customize. You
can plug in anything that
you want from complex applications,
for CRM, or just a
little widget that displays the
weather. If you're not big
into the code thing, that's
cool to get a full
set of features out of
the box, like workflow multi-lingual
sites, content, versioning that can
all be added without code.
There's also a whole bunch
of pluggable modules and components
for news blogs, forums, polls
lists. This is all stuff
that you can do without
code. And it's pretty good
looking product as well. You've
got a nice web 2.0
administrative interface that lets you
as well as your boss.
Who's not technical and be
really productive. So check out
site affinity.com and we'll get
you right back to the
show. Thanks a lot. Alright,
so you're starting to get
my head around this, and
I'm feeling a little better
about my, my potential for,
for being a decent photographer.
So talking back about taking
a picture of my son,
such that he's in focus
in the background is, is
blurry, but he moves really
fast. It's tough to get
him to sit still if
I want a shot of
him at crystal clear, but
I also want the background
to be blurry. I feel
like maybe I've got two
things that are at odds,
because if I understand from
what you're saying, if he's
moving fast, I'm gonna need
a fast shutter speed. So
as to capture him in
motion, without blur, but by
doing that, I may not
get the blurry background that
I'm looking for. Right. And
so that's where this is
where you start to get
a little bit into what
you're, what you're paying for
when you buy better lenses,
is that the, you know,
the very high quality lenses
that will go to a
very wide aperture, like an
F one point for example,
you know, an F 1.2,
we'll let you to let
as much light in as
possible, you know, through that
wide aperture, meaning that you
can use a shorter shutter
speed as opposed to, you
know, like a consumer grade
lens, like the one that
came with your, you know,
with your camera kit or
the one, you know, actually
the one that I have
on now, you know, the
absolute widest aperture that this
is going to go to
is maybe an F 3.5
or even an F 4.5.
So it just simply won't
be possible to do that
with this lens. So that's
why, you know, that's why
they make a wide variety
of lenses. And depending on
how much money you have,
you know, like a, an
F 1.2 lens, you know,
at a portrait length may
run you $2,000 for a
lens, Is that I'm paying
for it. Why, why make
that so difficult to pay
to for, for Joe public
on the street to have
The biggest factor is to
get that wider aperture, you've
got more glass and more
finally precision engineered glass in
that lens. It will be
a very heavy lens if
you were to hold it
in your hand, you know,
an F 1.2 lens versus
an F 5.6 lens, there's
going to be a huge,
huge weight difference. And so
it's, it's the build quality.
It's the precision of the
engineering. It's the R and
D that, you know, the
lens manufacturer has done to
be able to, to engineer
something to do that, You
know, in, in my, in
my brief experience as a,
I guess I'm a prosumer
now, not just a consumer,
but a prosumer professional consumer,
you know, I'm going to
come in to answer a
photographer here. The bodies all
seen about the same size.
I would think that the
size of the aperture can
only get so big. Otherwise
it's completely letting in as
much light as is, as
is possible to enter the
body. Are there high end
cameras? You might watch the
Olympics on that are going
to have giant apertures that
are custom, Generally the camera
body itself. It's all coming
into a sensor and the
sensors are relatively small and
that, you know, the sensor
in your camera, you know,
the sensor in my camera
is probably, you know, comparable
to like the size of
a postage stamp. So ultimately
that's where the image is
going to, so, yeah, like
you watch like an NFL
game or the Olympics or
something. You will see guys
on the sidelines with these
giant lenses, which, you know,
again, they're dealing with giant
lenses with lots of glass
that will go to really
wide apertures, but eventually it's
all, you know, as the
image passes through that lens,
it gets reflected down onto,
or very small area. So
I actually seen those guys
with tripods for the camera
and then another tripod for
the end of the giant
lens. Yeah. Yeah. That's and
that's because some of those
lenses will weigh, you know,
you know, 10, 12, 15
pounds just for the lens,
because there's so much glass
in it and it's just,
you can't hand hold it
steady at that point. Now,
one of the features I
noticed in my new camera
Is that there's JPEG, of
course, but there's also this
raw, or I think it
was called NEF Raw. Yeah,
pretty much you need DSLR.
And most of the higher
end point and shoots now
have the ability to record
an image and raw format.
And raw format is a
proprietary format that comes from
the camera manufacturer, Nikon their
file extension is, you know,
NEF cannons currently is a
CRM. Their original ones were
CRW. What a raw image
is the best way to
think of a rye image
is that it's a digital
negative. It's a exact representation
of the data directly off
of the camera sensor, which
is really cool because it
means in that raw file,
you have every bit of
data that the camera captured.
The downside. If there is
one, is that it's a
negative, it requires some processing.
You can't just put a
raw file on the web
and say, you know, browse
to my webpage, I've embedded
these raw files in it
because, you know, it's, it's
not a computer readable image
file through any of the
standard means at that point.
So a raw file will
require some processing to turn
it into a JPEG or
a TIFF or some other
format that can be widely
read. Well, I went up
on the web and found
that there was a release
a while back for, for
Vista and also for XP
to read raw files and
see thumbnails of them. But
you have to go to
the camera manufacturer and get
that driver. And I went
up and found a Nikon
raw file thing that would
allow them to show up
and explore, but it only
worked on 32 bit windows,
which I thought was ironic
because if I had such
a big file, wouldn't I
like a 64 bit operating
system to edit it on.
Yeah. That's, that's one of
the things where, because it
is a proprietary format, the
camera manufacturers like to, they're
not necessarily real open about
releasing all the specs for
their format. And so the
manufacturers that make raw processing
software often they even have
to reverse engineer these things,
but yeah, Canon and Nikon
and the manufacturers they'll release,
you know, essentially it's a
Kodak. Like you have an
audio codec that reads an
audio file. You have a
raw file Kodak that lets
windows interpret a raw file.
But yeah, as you've discovered
much like any other manufacturer
specific hardware or software, you're
kind of at the whim
of that manufacturer to get
that, to support the platforms
you want, I would expect
that Nikon would be releasing
something for 64 bit Vista.
Cause it's not that obscure
of a thing anymore. I
think so I did notice
that raw support was built
into Google's Picasa application, which
didn't require any codex to
be installed, which was kind
of clever they'd reverse engineered
something. And also, I guess,
windows live galleries got some
support for that kind of
stuff, but don't most people
just use this thing as
it light room on windows
and an aperture on a,
the Mac there's When you
get into the people that
are doing it seriously for
raw processing, there's a whole
kind of industry of raw
processing software. Adobe has a,
it's essentially a Photoshop plugin
called Adobe camera raw, which
integrates with Photoshop or Lightroom
or any of their recent
products. And we'll do raw
processing. Apple has a product
called aperture that does raw
processing. There's other standalone kind
of niche applications. There's one
called capture one. There's some
other there's one called biblical.
I believe it is that
all they do is Rob
process and then Lightroom, which
you mentioned those raw processing,
but it also does some,
a little bit of digital
asset management, which is kind
of a whole nother software
field of if you're out
shooting, you know, I mean,
I'm shooting startup Palooza, which
is an event here in
Portland this weekend. I'm probably
going to shoot, you know,
hundreds or, you know, potentially
over a thousand images on
Saturday. How do you manage
that many images so that
you can find what you're
looking for? And so there's
this whole other category of
software. Are you going to,
this is an interesting thing.
It's just, I just thought
of, are you going to
delete photos on the camera
or do you always wait
to get home before you
delete a photo? Yes and
no. I will occasionally delete
photos in the field. You
don't want to delete photos
in the field based on
what you see on a
two or three inch LCD
previous screen, based on how
it looks on that screen.
You know, what you see
on a two inch or
three inch screen on your
camera, as far as trying
to gauge an exposure or
gauge whether something is necessarily
tech sharp quite often will
be very different than when
you get that on your
computer monitor. And you're looking
at it at full size
where I will delete photos
in the field, or what
you can do in the
field that is useful is
if you look at your
camera, any of the DSLRs
will allow you to show
what a it's called a
histogram, which is essentially a
graph and a well exposed
photo. It will look like
a bell curve. And it's
showing you a graph of
the tonal range of the
photo with all the range
of values from light to
dark and how much light
versus dark there is. That
is mine always go off
to one side. So yeah,
if you're, if you're looking
at your histogram and you
see that you're consistently, you
know, off to one side
or some images after one
side or the other, it
means that you've probably overexposed
or underexposed the photo a
bit, depending on how bad
it is, you know, it
might be perfectly fine, you
know, and you have to
take into account what you're
shooting. I mean, you know,
like shooting outdoors in the
snow is notoriously difficult because
you don't want to, you
know, blow out the white.
You don't want to overexpose
all that white so that
the camera loses that data.
But on the other hand,
you want to grab the
detail of whatever's in the
snow. So where I will
delete images in the field
might be that, you know,
I've shot a photo and
I want to take a
look and see, ah, okay,
so I was shooting in,
Oh, wow. I overexposed this
bright area on the ceiling.
Or, you know, I got
the foreground exposed correctly, but
maybe the background I'm shooting
against some sort of a
white sky or something. And
so Just can't you fix
some of that after the
fact, I mean, like one
of the things that Carl Franklin,
my producer said that when
we first started podcasting was
he said for God's sake,
don't overdrive the mic. And
that's like the white area
on the photo at that
point. There's nothing I can
do about that. You have
exactly the same thing with
a digital image and that,
you know, your sensor can
capture, you know, a range
of values. And if you
vastly overexpose to the point
where you have an overly
white area or vast Lander
exposed to the area where
you just have a huge
area, that's pitch black, you
won't be able to fix
that no matter how much
post-processing you do. If you
get really close to that,
a lot of times you
can recover some detail and
the Canon cameras. And I
believe the Nikon cameras have
a function where you can
tell the camera, like on
my 40 D and on
my previous camera, which was
a 300 D one of
the digital rebels, there was
an option to say, when
I'm looking at a photo
in the preview, if I
have blown out an area
to completely overexpose it, where
it's just white hat, have
that area flash on the
view screen. For me, Mine's
stuck in that mode. It
takes all the white and
flip flips back and forth,
white to black. So if
you're seeing that, what that's
telling you is that this
area is so light, that
the camera can't interpret it.
It's going to come out
as absolute, complete white. There
is no data. There is
no data there at that
point. So depending on your
image, that's the kind of
thing I'll look for in
the field. And if I've
completely screwed something up like
that, you know, if I
have the ability to reshoot
something, I will, but generally
disc spaces, cheap memory cards
are cheap. I'm going to,
you know, I'm not going
to start massively deleting things
out in the field, you
know, because there's a lot
of work you can do.
Post-processing It sounds like we,
now, now that space is
not non-issue when I bought
the, the D 40, I
ended up buying for two
gig cards because I remember
actually being out in, we
were in Africa in 2001,
we were in Zimbabwe and
we had an Kodak. I
want to say it was
a two 40 something. It
was, it was the big
square Kodak first, you know,
1.2 megapixel camera. I had
one of those. I said,
it was, it was a
deep, It was like a
two 40 or two 20,
or I think I had
a two 20, You had
a compact flash. And it
was the funniest looking camera.
And I went to Africa
with a 16 Meg. Yeah.
I think it came with
an eight Meg card. And
I recall having like a
16, and I think at
some point I bought a
32 Meg card and I
thought that was the biggest
deal ever. Now, now on
a 32 maid card, I
could fit maybe two images
out of my current camera.
Yeah. And if you're not
shooting raw. Yeah. Yeah. The,
the RA that's the other
downside to Roz, you know,
a raw image because it's
a capture of all of
the data, you know, a
raw image off of, you
know, a 10 or 12
megapixel camera is probably going
to be, you know, 10
to 15 megabytes, you know,
whereas a JPEG might be,
you know, two to three
megabyte. Yeah. I remember having
to delete photos cause we
were there for a month
and that was a problem.
And you, you know, at
that point, you, if you
wanted another, you know, 16
Meg card that was going
to cost you a few
hundred dollars now, you know,
I just picked up a
four gig card for, you
know, like $30. Yeah. So
today on, on Twitter, you
and I both noticed that
there's Photoshop express now of
flash-based online Photoshop, but I
frankly I was kinda disappointed.
It was more of a,
it looked like Picasa or
windows live photo gallery or
any one of the many
different photo management applications with
a button for red eye
and a button for fix.
But it wasn't really Photoshop.
No, that's, that's one of
my, you know, I think
it's cool that companies are
releasing things like this on
the web, especially for free,
but calling it Photoshop is
really a misnomer because you
know, you go in there
and yeah, there's some good
picture editing tools. You can
adjust, you know, the color
spectrum you can address sharpening.
You can do things like
that. It's a useful tool,
but it's not really Photoshop.
The UI doesn't look like
Photoshop and a lot of
what Photoshop can do it
can't, there's no layer there's
no, yeah, it's, it's a
very basic tool, you know,
it's worth all of what
it costs you to use
it. You know, it's a
good free editor enemy. If
you need to make a
quick fix on a photo,
there's nothing wrong with it,
but it's not really comparable
to Photoshop. If people are
looking for, you know, if
people are wanting to seriously
do some, you know, real
post-processing on their images, you
can do a little bit
with the free stuff like
that, or with Picasa or,
you know, paint.net, even as
an open source, you know,
dot net application, if you
will kind of want to
get a little bit beyond
what you can do with
the free tools. I encourage
people to look at Photoshop
elements, which is, I think
street prices around $80. It's
a stripped down version of
the full version of Photoshop,
but it's really designed for
processing digital photos. It has
the functionality you need to
apply filters and do layers
and things like that. It
doesn't have some of the
advanced stuff Photoshop does for
drawing or, you know, CMY
K print processing and things
like that. But for editing
digital photos that it's really,
you know, unless you want
to go spend 600, $700
on the full version of
Photoshop, you know, Now you
had noticed, you had mentioned
to me just before we
started recording that you'd noticed
something a little maybe possibly
disturbing in the end user
license agreement for this little
service here. Cause I know
that as a, as a
moving into a professional photography,
you're starting thinking about copyright,
Copyright and licensing is something
that, you know, people need
to think about. You know,
even if you're just sharing
your images for fun on
a site like flicker or
Picasso or something like that,
you know, you know, potentially
you're putting things out on
the internet. Do you want
people to be able to
use it, you know, flickers
great, and that they let
you easily apply a creative
commons license. If you want
to have someone use it
for a noncommercial purpose, someone
tipped me off to go
look at the terms of
service on Photoshop express, which
is what they're calling their
free version and buried down.
I think it's section eight
is the licensing section and
buried down in section eight
of the terms of service.
It says, yeah, I'm paraphrasing
here, but by uploading photos
to their free hosting gallery
section, which is kind of
the other component to it,
you can edit photos and
they will also, they give
you Separate from edit. You
can edit and, and bring
them back down to your
own machine and they never
get posted on the board
Or you can upload them
and edit them and save
them there. And I think
they give you two gigabytes
of hosting space for free
by uploading anything to the
public hosting section, you grant
Adobe, a royalty free unlimited
license to use your images
for essentially anything they want,
which is a bit disturbing
because I mean, potentially, you
know, that could be them
using it for marketing. They,
I mean, the way I
read it, as it sounded
like they could take your
photos and go sell them,
which Well, can you give
me keeping in mind that
we're both, you're a photographer.
I just bought a camera
and neither of us are
lawyers, but it does sound
like something that people need
to start reading It's yeah.
It's something that, you know,
like I said, I noticed
it, I wrote a blog
post about it today. It's
one of those things that
I think if it gets
any publicity, Adobe is probably
going to have to rework
those terms. You don't think
there's any chance that we
were misinterpreting it. I, the
way I'm reading it, I,
it sure sounds to me
like, I mean, it's pretty
clear. You're granting Adobe a,
a license, a license to
use the photos. You still
own the copyright on them,
but you know, No, by
upload to flicker live now,
you know, photos are what
Picasa or Microsoft's got live
photos. Is there any implicit
license? Not on flicker. I'm
a big flicker fan. I
use flicker on flicker, the
default license. If you don't
change it is that you
retain all rights to the
image. They're just holding it
for you. They're just holding
it for you. Flicker makes
it easy to assign a
creative commons license. So if
you want to say, Hey,
people can use this. As
long as they give me
credit and attribution, you know,
flicker makes it easy to
do that. I haven't used
the Microsoft live phone, The
smug mug. That's pretty sweet.
Have you seen smug mug?
I've looked SmugMug a little
bit. I haven't, you know,
I don't have a gallery
there, but so that's kind
of nice. The licensing thing
is just something that, you
know, it's one of those
things people should be aware
of. Somebody made a comment
on Twitter today in response
to this discussion saying that
apparently the YouTube license also
says that, that whatever you
put on YouTube, you're granting
YouTube and Google a license
to do whatever they want
with. So I haven't that
TV shows are up there.
I mean, I don't know,
but at least the Adobe
license, I did read it
myself. And to me it
sounds overly broad. And it's
going to keep you from
using this tool that, you
know, among other things like
the fact, I don't need
somewhere else to host my
photos, but you know, if
I was looking for a
photo host, I, I certainly
wouldn't, you know, grant it
to somebody who just says,
just because you post your
photos here, I can do
whatever I want with them.
Well, it sounds like the
moral of the story, because
again, we're, you know, we're
just two guys with a
microphone. Is it people who
are going to use any
kind of a hosting service
need to read the fine
print and think about, is
this going to serve the
purpose that I, that I
need, but I really appreciate
you taking the time to
sit down and talk to
me about this. I want
to go and figure out
how to use the aperture
and shutter speed. Now to
take pictures of my kid.
I don't think I've ever
needed to the point where
I'm running a professional photography
business, but I wish you
all the best in your
new venture. Well, thank you.
And the good thing is
with the digital camera, your,
your film is free. So
you can play around and
experiment and try different values
and see what happens. And
you know, all it's going
to take is your time,
but you know, you don't
have to try something out.
And you know, the other
thing is that it's instant.
You don't have to wait
two weeks for the photos
to come back from the
lab to see what happens.
So cool. Well, thank you,
Aaron Hockley, and I have
been Scott Hanselman, and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. They'll see you again
next week.